Hello everyone and welcome to the our data frame's exercises solutions walk through lecture.
This lecture is going to be programming through the solutions for the data frame's exercises and explaining
as we go along.
Let's jump to our studio and get started.
OK.
So here we are studio in the first exercise question was to recreate the following data frame by creating
vectors and using that data frame function.
So the data frame in question that we need to recreate is in the exercise notebook and have also printed
it out here.
So looks like we want three rows and three columns.
Sam Frank and Amy are people as rows so this the index of the rows.
And then we have an age column the weights column and a sex column.
So as the instructions say we'll do it by creating vectors.
So let's go ahead and start and go ahead and make a name vector to hold the names of the people.
So that's going to be Sam Frank is our next one and Amy is our last one.
You new single or double quotes here won't really make a difference.
Next one will have is H.
And I'll make that vector have 20 to 25 and 26.
Then we have a wait's column so make a vector called a weight and that will carry 150 165 120.
And then finally we have a six column for their gender and then we have them
male again and then female.
All right so we have a vectors.
Now the question is how do we combine these into a data frame.
Well we need to call our data that frame function and then I'm going to go ahead and say robot names
is equal to the name vector and that's how we can assign those row names that index labeling to the
name vector.
Then I just need a pass in the columns that I want in this case are just the vectors.
So I can say age weights and then that sex gender column.
Let's go ahead and assign this to a data frame.
If we can print out DSF And if we just read this we get the exact same result looks.
If you've got a match fantastic may go ahead and clear the con..
One other thing I want to mention before we continue onto the next exercise is in case you couldn't
figure out how to actually set the names of the row row that names using this input data frame function
you could have also set it using the row names function that we've seen before row names and then what
we do is just passing your data frame and then assign a vector of names.
So for example if we had different names such as ABC just like we did for matrices you can use this
same functionality knows another way you could have set those names for the rows.
All right.
So we have age weight sex and ABC.
Let's go ahead and continue on.
Going to go ahead and clear this text here and it clear the council and put in the next exercise question
.
So the next exercise question was the check of empty cars is a data frame using.
Is it a frame.
So again empty cars is a built in data frame in our So it's go and just check the head of it.
You don't need to import any libraries or do anything you see a type empty cars it will automatically
know that you're referencing that data frame.
Quick reminder do you want to see what other data is available for you that's built in.
You can say data as a function and this little pop up will show up with names of builtin matrices data
friends vectors etc..
We're going to close that now.
So we want to check if MT Kerr's is a data frame so we can always check if an object is a particular
type of class or a particular type of data structure etc..
But using is datt methodology.
So that is that we can then we just say whatever we're actually checking for in this case we're checking
for is that data frame.
And we just pass in empty cars and it returns True which is good because IndyCar has a built in data
.
Next exercise was to use as that data frame to convert a matrix into a data frame.
So just like we have these is options we also have as options and as options will basically try to convert
from one object or a data type to another.
So we're going to say as well actually.
First off we want to actually set up our matrix so the matrix in this case is this M-80 we sign that
matrix and then we can say as that data frame pass in M-80 and we get a data frame back.
So if I just say amitie or Matt by itself notice a difference in the output display here we can see
it's a matrix due to the bracket notation in the kitting rows and columns just by index or array numbers
.
Here we can see the data frame actually has built in column names and a builtin row naming scheme.
All right.
Moving on to the next exercise question.
It was to set the builtin data for an empty cars as a variable DFAC if I clear the council.
All we had to do for this step was quite simple just say the F is empty cars and we're going to be doing
is referring to ADF for the rest of the questions.
So the next one was to display the first six rows of DLF.
Question number five how do we actually do that.
Well we can just call ahead on the path though automatically display the first six rows.
Do you want to display a certain number of rows from the top of your data frame.
You can specify a second argument and head which is just an integer saying OK only display the first
two rows six seven rows etc..
Next question we had to answer was What does the average MP G or mpg value for all the cars.
Well north to answer this question let's go in and check.
Looks like we have an MPG column number the way one way of calling columns off a data frame is just
by using the dollar sign.
So using that methodology I can get a vector of the values and have a vector of values.
It means I can just call me in and say the F mpg.
And there we have it's around twenty point one miles per gallon is the average MPG value for all the
cars.
Go in and go onto the next question.
OK so exercise seven.
Question number seven was to select the rows for all cars have 6 cylinders.
There's a couple of ways we can do this.
One way is through bracket notation where we can just say since we have a data frame as empty cars DSF
specify the cylinder column equals six.
And then we have to add an extra comma.
Since we're looking for all the rows where that's true.
And then that will return where the data frame cylinder column has equality with six.
So that's why these bracket notation we can also use the subset function to do this.
So we can say subsets pass in our data frame and then say cylinder equals to 6 and they'll produce the
exact same result.
Either method is correct.
This is the method shown in the solution notebook but you could have also done subset the cylinders
six is a couple of other ways to do this.
And later on later in the course that is all there and how to use the player library to also filter
out results using some special functions.
For now either of these two methods would have been correct.
Moving on to the next exercise we had to select the columns am gear and carb from the data frame.
So how do we actually do that.
We clear the console.
We know if we want to select just one column we can say bracket notation comma and then the name of
the column such as am and I'll return those vector values if we want several columns so we can just
pass any vector of the column names.
So we want AM year car and there we have it we scroll up to actually see this.
This is the resulting data frame.
So you get those three columns back along with their real names that are associated with each of those
values.
There's a couple of other ways to do this but this is probably the most straightforward as far as you
see him bracket notation indexing to do this.
Moving on to the next question that was to create a new column called performance which is calculated
by horsepower divided by weight.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Can it clear the council.
So how do we actually create a new column with a data frame.
Well there are several ways to do it.
The easiest is just by specifying that column as if it already exists and then assigning it some values
.
In this case we want to assign horsepower the value by weight.
So just go ahead and call those columns horse power after they reframe divided by weight.
And let's go ahead and check the head of our data free now.
And notice we have the new performance column and this will lead us into our next question and our next
question notice that the performance column has several decimal place precision so it looks it goes
up to five decimal places.
We want to figure out how to use round to reduce this accuracy to only two decimal places.
And it says check help round.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So if we haven't seen round before we can say help round her and we get this nice help documentation
on the rounding of numbers.
There's several functions to help us round numbers but we're looking just for round which round is the
value in the first argument to the specified number of decimal places.
So if we go ahead and copy and paste the documentation line looks like this and we end up having is
two arguments here.
X and digits.
So X is the numeric vector and what digits represents is the number of decimal places that we want to
use.
Let's go ahead and shift this over to the right now that we know how to use round.
Let's go ahead and reassign performance.
So say performance is going to be equal to.
And we can go ahead and say DMF performance again.
And in this case what we're going to do is use round to pass in round.
And the second argument we pass on is to which is the digits argument to make that really clear we can
just say digits equals 2.
And now if I check the head of my data frame I notice that my performance column has been truncated
or rounded off to two digits.
So it's not a straight truncation it's just a rounding off.
So for example thirty point three four six gets rounded to thirty point three five.
Let's go ahead and move on to the next question.
Next question Frigo and informant.
This was what is the average MPG for cars that have more than 100 horsepower and a weight value of more
than 2.5.
Let's go ahead and figure this out.
There's a couple of ways you can solve this.
Also the first method using subset.
So our first challenge is to grab the subset of the data frame where we have more than 100 horsepower
and a weight value of more than two point five.
So I can say subset pass in my data frame and then pass in my condition.
So in this case want a horse power greater than 100.
And so using that logical operator I want weight to be also greater than 2.5.
So if I go ahead and call that subset I get back to a subset of the data frame where this is true and
I can actually call columns off of that subset command.
So when you go in and clear this from that subset command I can call a column off of it.
MPG which means I can take that whole statement and pass it into the mean function.
And there you have sixteen point eight six etc. which is the average miles per gallon for cars that
have more than 100 horsepower and a weight value of 2.5.
That's how you can solve this question using the subset function.
Now we could also bracket notation to do this.
I'll go ahead and show you how we could have done that.
We can say DSF and in brackets pass what the actual conditions you want.
So this gets a little messier because we have to specify DFI dollar signs but it's essentially the same
logic.
We're saying T.F. horsepower greater than 100 and DPF weights greater than 2.5.
And then what we can do off of this is put a comma call mpg Whoops.
And then we just see that we get the exact same results.
So I can call I mean on this entire thing and this is how you would do it using bracket notation.
Personally subset looks a lot cleaner and has a lot more readable to me personally.
But if you really like bracket notation you could have also done it this way.
As I mentioned earlier later on we'll learn how to use that the player library to try to clean up these
sort of filter instructions with a nice clean syntax.
Finally the last question was this what is the mpg of the Hornet sport about.
So how do we actually find that.
Well I can't get my data frame and then just pass in the name of that car on it.
Spore about karma.
So I pass this first because that's the actual name comma because I want all the cars for that.
So if I just do this they'll return the horn at sport about Roe.
And if I want the mpg of that I can just say dollar sign mpg and there we have eighteen point seven
The MPG of the Hornet sport about car.
OK.
That's it for this lecture on the solutions walk through for the data frames exercise.
If any of that was unclear makes you reference the notebook work through the exercises again or reference
the data frames lectures from the data frame section of the course.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture